# Upgrading 0.7 to 1.0

::: danger Not for Production Use
**Pterodactyl 1.0 is currently unstable and missing significant features**. Do _not_ use this software
on a production system. Significant changes can still occur, and it has not been properly vetted by
the team for security and integrity.
:::

## Fetch Updated Files
The first step in the update process is to download the new panel files from Github. The command below will download
the release archive for the most recent version of Pterodactyl and save it in the current directory. Now is a good time
to ensure that you're in the `/var/www/pterodactyl` directory as the command below will automatically unpack in whatever
directory you are currently in.

``` bash
curl -L https://github.com/pterodactyl/panel/releases/download/v0.8.0-alpha.2/panel.tar.gz | tar --strip-components=1 -xzv
```

Once all of the files are downloaded we need to set the correct permissions on the cache and storage directories to avoid
any webserver related errors.

``` bash
chmod -R 755 storage/* bootstrap/cache
```

## Clear Compiled Assets
You'll need to clear the template cache to ensure users get the most recent templates.

``` bash
php artisan view:clear
```

## Update Dependencies
After you've downloaded all of the new files you will need to upgrade the core components of the panel. To do this,
simply run the commands below and follow any prompts.

``` bash
composer install --no-dev --optimize-autoloader
```

## Database Updates
::: warning
Running `db:seed` below will overwrite any changes you made to core Pterodactyl Nests, Eggs, or Egg Variables! This is
unavoidable, and this seeder must be run. To avoid this in the future, please create custom nests, or create custom
eggs for game variations.
:::

``` bash
php artisan migrate --force
php artisan db:seed --force
```

## Set Permissions
The last step is to set the proper owner of the files to be the user that runs your webserver. In most cases this
is `www-data` but can vary from system to system &mdash; sometimes being `nginx`, `apache`, or even `nobody`.

``` bash
# If using NGINX or Apache (not on CentOS):
chown -R www-data:www-data * 

# If using NGINX on CentOS:
chown -R nginx:nginx *

# If using Apache on CentOS
chown -R apache:apache *
```
