# Upgrading 0.5.X to 0.6.X

::: danger This Software is Abandoned
This documentation is for **abandoned software** which does not recieve any security updates or support
from the community. This documentation has been left accessible for historial reasons.

You should be installing and using [Wings](/wings/1.0/installing.md) in production environments with
[Pterodactyl Panel 1.0](/panel/1.0/getting_started.md).
:::

[[toc]]

::: warning Server Restart Required
Your servers will need to be restarted after upgrading the daemon in order to see the expected log output in the Panel.
:::

## Breaking Changes
This release introduces a few breaking changes to how the Daemon operates, but maintains compatibility with `v0.7.X` of
the Panel, so you don't need to worry about updating the Panel.

Of notable change in this release is that we've switched from using custom logging functionality to using Docker logging
functionality. This allows us to better output events that happen before we can attach to the container, centralizes logic,
and allows Docker to manage the logs (which it does very well). Now, when your server refuses to boot, instead of seeing
an unhelpful "Server has crashed" message with nothing before it, you'll see _everything_ that happened in the container
leading up to that point, assuming things were output.

## Download Files
To upgrade from v0.5.X first switch the directory where you installed your Daemon. If you followed the installation
guide your Daemon is most likely located in `/srv/daemon`. Then, download and unpack the archive using the
command below.

::: danger
Stop your Daemon process before continuing in order to avoid any issues and ensure everything updates as expected.
``` bash
systemctl stop wings
```
:::

``` bash
curl -L https://github.com/pterodactyl/daemon/releases/download/v0.6.13/daemon.tar.gz | tar --strip-components=1 -xzv
```

Then, update the core dependencies for the Daemon with the following command.

``` bash
npm update --only=production
```

### Start the Daemon
Finally, start your daemon up, most likely with the command below.

``` bash
systemctl start wings
```

## Rebuild Containers
Because of some changes we made behind the scenes when it comes to displaying server output you'll need to rebuild and
restart all of your servers. The rebuild step is required, the restart step is optional, but highly recommended otherwise
you will not be able to see any console output.

Run the following commands _from the Panel server_ in order to perform a mass rebuild and restart. Replace `###` with the
ID of the node you just upgraded, or remove the `--node` flag entirely to rebuild on all nodes.

``` bash
php artisan p:server:rebuild --node=###
```

Then, restart all of the servers using the following command, or by manually restarting them one at a time in the Panel.

``` bash
php artisan p:server:bulk-power restart --nodes=###
```
