# Upgrading 0.6 Series

::: danger This Software is Abandoned
This documentation is for **abandoned software** which does not recieve any security updates or support
from the community. This documentation has been left accessible for historial reasons.

You should be installing and using [Wings](/wings/1.0/installing.md) in production environments with
[Pterodactyl Panel 1.0](/panel/1.0/getting_started.md).
:::

::: warning Minor Versions Only
**DO NOT** use this guide to upgrade from `0.5.X` to `0.6.X`, it will not work and you will encounter errors afterwards. Please check the [0.5 to 0.6](/daemon/upgrade/0.5_to_0.6.md) upgrade documentation to perform that update.
:::

::: tip
Your servers will not go offline during this process thanks to Docker. Clients will briefly lose connection
to the Daemon from the Panel, but only during the restart phase.
:::

## Download Newest Release
First, ensure you're in the Daemon directory, `/srv/daemon`, before continuing through this process. After you've done
that, run the command below to pull down the latest files and unpack them in the daemon directory.

``` bash
curl -L https://github.com/pterodactyl/daemon/releases/download/v0.6.13/daemon.tar.gz | tar --strip-components=1 -xzv
```

## Update Components
After you've pulled down the latest files the last thing you need to do is run the commands below to update the
components and then restart the daemon.

::: warning Nodejs 10 Required
Version `0.6.13` requires Nodejs v10 or higher in order to compile the `mmmagic` dependency. Please ensure
you are running at least version 10. You can run `node -v` to check, upgrade if it is `v6` or `v8`.
:::

::: warning Audit Results
You may see output along the lines of "found 14 vulnerabilities (6 low, 3 moderate, 5 high) in 927 scanned packages".
You can safely ignore this output. Do not run the audit fix command, you _will_ break your Daemon.
:::

``` bash
npm install --only=production --no-audit --unsafe-perm
systemctl restart wings
```
