# Upgrading 0.7 Series to 1.0 Series
This upgrade guide is for **upgrading from 0.7.X to 1.0.0**. If you are trying to do an upgrade on a 1.0.X Panel
please [use this guide instead](/panel/1.0/upgrade/1.0.md).

::: warning Release Candidate Stage
Please be aware that Pterodactyl 1.0 is currently a Release Candidate. This means that we still do not recommend
it for heavy production use, but users comfortable handling occasional bugs and weird behavior are encouraged to
make use of it in order to help us better test it.
:::

::: danger No Downgrade Path
There have been a small number of individuals who have installed this release candidate and then
requested support downgrading back to 0.7 because they were unhappy.

There is no officially supported downgrade pathway. **DO NOT** install this release candidate if
you are not prepared to handle a few remaining bugs and a new UI, you will not receive any assistance
with downgrading back to 0.7.
:::

## Enter Maintenance Mode
You'll want to put your Panel into maintenance mode by running the `down` command below before starting. This
will prevent users from accessing the Panel during a period where things will be broken or not working correctly.
``` bash
# Put the Panel into maintenance mode and deny user access
php artisan down
```


## Fetch Updated Files
The first step in the update process is to download the new panel files from GitHub. The command below will download
the release archive for the most recent version of Pterodactyl and save it in the current directory. Now is a good time
to ensure that you're in the `/var/www/pterodactyl` directory as the command below will automatically unpack the archive
into your current folder.

We will also be deleting the `app/` directory. Because of the way we handle installations and upgrades deleted files
are not always detected properly, so simply uppacking over this location will result in some confusing behavior.

``` bash
# Delete the app directory to ensure we start with a clean slate here. This will not affect any
# of your settings or servers.
curl -L -o panel.tar.gz https://github.com/pterodactyl/panel/releases/download/v1.0.0-rc.7/panel.tar.gz
rm -rf $(find app public resources -depth | head -n -1 | grep -Fv "$(tar -tf panel.tar.gz)")

# Download the updated files and delete the archive file.
tar -xzvf panel.tar.gz && rm -f panel.tar.gz
```

Once all of the files are downloaded we need to set the correct permissions on the cache and storage directories to avoid
any webserver related errors.

``` bash
chmod -R 755 storage/* bootstrap/cache
```

## Update Dependencies
After you've downloaded all of the new files you will need to upgrade the core components of the panel. To do this,
simply run the commands below and follow any prompts.

``` bash
composer install --no-dev --optimize-autoloader
```

## Clear Compiled Template Cache
You'll also want to clear the compiled template cache to ensure that new and modified templates show up correctly for
users.

``` bash
php artisan view:clear
php artisan config:clear
```

## Database Updates
You'll also need to update your database schema for the newest version of Pterodactyl. Running the two commands below
will update the schema and ensure the default eggs we ship are up to date (and add any new ones we might have). Just
remember, _never edit core eggs we ship_! They will be overwritten by this update process.
``` bash
php artisan migrate --force
php artisan db:seed --force
```

## Set Permissions
The last step is to set the proper owner of the files to be the user that runs your webserver. In most cases this
is `www-data` but can vary from system to system &mdash; sometimes being `nginx`, `apache`, or even `nobody`.

``` bash
# If using NGINX or Apache (not on CentOS):
chown -R www-data:www-data * 

# If using NGINX on CentOS:
chown -R nginx:nginx *

# If using Apache on CentOS
chown -R apache:apache *
```

## Switch to Wings
We've deprecated the old Node.js daemon in favor of [Wings](https://github.com/pterodactyl/wings), our new server
control plane written in Go. This new system is significantly faster, easier to install, and much smaller. All you
need to do is install a single binary on your system and configure it to run on boot.

**You cannot use the old daemon to run servers with Pterodactyl Panel 1.0.**

Please see [Migrating to Wings](/wings/1.0/migrating.md) for instructions.

## Exit Maintenance Mode
Now that the upgrade is complete, exit maintenance mode and your Panel will now be available.

```bash
# Bring the Panel back up to receive connections.
php artisan up
```
