# Upgrading 0.6 to 0.7

::: danger This Version is End-of-Life
This documentation is for **end-of-life software** which does not recieve any security updates or support
from the community. This documentation has been left accessible for historial reasons.

You should be installing and using [Pterodactyl Panel 1.0](/panel/1.0/getting_started.md) in production environments.
:::

## Fetch Updated Files
The first step in the update process is to download the new panel files from GitHub. The command below will download
the release archive for the most recent version of Pterodactyl and save it in the current directory. Now is a good time
to ensure that you're in the `/var/www/pterodactyl` directory as the command below will automatically unpack in whatever
directory you are currently in.

``` bash
curl -L https://github.com/pterodactyl/panel/releases/download/v0.7.19/panel.tar.gz | tar --strip-components=1 -xzv
```

Once all of the files are downloaded we need to set the correct permissions on the cache and storage directories to avoid
any webserver related errors.

``` bash
chmod -R 755 storage/* bootstrap/cache
```

## Clear Compiled Assets
Previous versions of Pterodactyl attempted to cache your configuration file for speed and performance enhancements. This
ended up just causing more headaches with minimal improvements in performance, so we decided to stop doing that. Running
the command below will clear the cached files for you so we can continue with upgrading.

::: tip
You probably only need to run this command once when upgrading from `0.6.X`. Once you're upgraded we don't cache the configuration
file so there is no reason to remove anything.
:::

``` bash
rm -rf bootstrap/cache/*
```

Once the configuration cache is removed, you'll need to clear the template cache to ensure users get the most recent
templates.

``` bash
php artisan view:clear
```

## Update Dependencies
After you've downloaded all of the new files you will need to upgrade the core components of the panel. To do this,
simply run the commands below and follow any prompts.

``` bash
composer install --no-dev --optimize-autoloader
```

## Update Environment
These scripts will display your current values in brackets. To keep the current values simply press enter and it will
continue without making any modifications.

::: tip
We've changed our recommended cache driver to be Redis, rather than Memcached. If you're using Memcached you can
continue doing so with no problems, however moving forward our installation documentation will only mention Redis.
:::

``` bash
php artisan p:environment:setup
php artisan p:environment:mail
php artisan p:environment:database
```

## Database Updates

::: warning Backup your databases
The upgrade from `0.6` to `v0.7` includes some rather significant database changes. While the migration utility is
able to handle everything for you, we still suggest taking a backup of your database before proceeding &mdash; just incase.
:::

::: warning
Running `db:seed` below will overwrite any changes you made to core Pterodactyl Nests, Eggs, or Egg Variables! This is
unavoidable, and this seeder must be run. To avoid this in the future, please create custom nests, or create custom
eggs for game variations.
:::
``` bash
php artisan migrate --force
php artisan db:seed --force
```

## Cleanup API Keys
A significant change is introduced in 0.7.0 that changes how API keys are used, stored, and validated. Due to this
change, all previously created keys will no longer function. In order to keep things cleaned up you'll want to remove
these orphaned keys. To do so, run the command below.

``` bash
php artisan p:migration:clean-orphaned-keys
```

Don't forget to create new keys for yourself, as well as let all of your users know they'll need to do so as well.

## Set Permissions
The last step is to set the proper owner of the files to be the user that runs your webserver. In most cases this
is `www-data` but can vary from system to system &mdash; sometimes being `nginx`, `apache`, or even `nobody`.

``` bash
# If using NGINX or Apache (not on CentOS):
chown -R www-data:www-data * 

# If using NGINX on CentOS:
chown -R nginx:nginx *

# If using Apache on CentOS
chown -R apache:apache *
```
