# Upgrading 0.7 Series

::: danger This Version is End-of-Life
This documentation is for **end-of-life software** which does not recieve any security updates or support
from the community. This documentation has been left accessible for historial reasons.

You should be installing and using [Pterodactyl Panel 1.0](/panel/1.0/getting_started.md) in production environments.
:::

This documentation covers the process for upgrading within the `0.7.X` series of releases. This means upgrading from
&mdash; for example &mdash; `0.7.3` to `0.7.11`. **Do not use this guide for upgrading from `0.6` or upgrading to `1.0`.**

::: warning
If you are using a custom theme please be aware that upgrading will remove those files. You will need to re-upload
your theme once the upgrade is complete or you will end up with server errors.
:::

## Fetch Updated Files
The first step in the update process is to download the new panel files from GitHub. The command below will download
the release archive for the most recent version of Pterodactyl and save it in the current directory. Now is a good time
to ensure that you're in the `/var/www/pterodactyl` directory as the command below will automatically unpack the archive
into your current folder.

``` bash
curl -L https://github.com/pterodactyl/panel/releases/download/v0.7.19/panel.tar.gz | tar --strip-components=1 -xzv
```

Once all of the files are downloaded we need to set the correct permissions on the cache and storage directories to avoid
any webserver related errors.

``` bash
chmod -R 755 storage/* bootstrap/cache
```

## Update Dependencies
After you've downloaded all of the new files you will need to upgrade the core components of the panel. To do this,
simply run the commands below and follow any prompts.

``` bash
composer install --no-dev --optimize-autoloader
```

## Clear Compiled Template Cache
You'll also want to clear the compiled template cache to ensure that new and modified templates show up correctly for
users.

``` bash
php artisan view:clear
php artisan config:clear
```

## Database Updates
You'll also need to update your database schema for the newest version of Pterodactyl. Running the two commands below
will update the schema and ensure the default eggs we ship are up to date (and add any new ones we might have). Just
remember, _never edit core eggs we ship_! They will be overwritten by this update process.
``` bash
php artisan migrate --force
php artisan db:seed --force
```

## Set Permissions
The last step is to set the proper owner of the files to be the user that runs your webserver. In most cases this
is `www-data` but can vary from system to system &mdash; sometimes being `nginx`, `apache`, or even `nobody`.

``` bash
# If using NGINX or Apache (not on CentOS):
chown -R www-data:www-data * 

# If using NGINX on CentOS:
chown -R nginx:nginx *

# If using Apache on CentOS
chown -R apache:apache *
```
